---
date: '2012-03-26 23:53:31'
layout: post
slug: cal-n50-n90
title: "计算序列的N50、N90等"
description: ""
category: BioInformatics
tags: [Biology, Galaxy, Programming, Analyse]
wordpress_id: '1146'
---
{% include JB/setup %}

组装方面的老问题了，就是从大到小排序然后累加，第一次超过比例后输出当前值。<br>
关于N50，可以看<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N50_statistic">wiki</a>和<a href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0888754310000492">文章 (Assembly algorithms for next-generation sequencing data) </a>。
<blockquote>
Assemblies are measured by the size and accuracy of their contigs and scaffolds. Assembly size is usually given by statistics including maximum length, average length, combined total length, and N50. <b>The contig N50 is the length of the smallest contig in the set that contains the fewest (largest) contigs whose combined length represents at least 50% of the assembly.</b> <i>The N50 statistics for different assemblies are not comparable unless each is calculated using the same combined length value.</i> Assembly accuracy is difficult to measure. Some inherent measure of accuracy is provided by the degrees of mate-constraint satisfaction and violation <a href="http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0888754310000492#bib17">[17]</a>. Alignment to reference sequences is useful whenever trusted references exist.
</blockquote>

代码可以看<a href="http://seqanswers.com/forums/showthread.php?t=2766">SEQanswers论坛的帖子</a>，第二页的附件也是。<br>
关键的就是这堆：

	@x=sort{$b<=>$a}@x;
	my $count=0;
	my ($n50,$n80,$n90);
	my $len_mean=$tlen/$n;
	foreach my $i(@x)
	{
		$count+=$i;
		$n50=$i if (($count>=$tlen*0.5)&&(!defined $n50));
		$n80=$i if (($count>=$tlen*0.8)&&(!defined $n80));
		$n90=$i if (($count>=$tlen*0.9)&&(!defined $n90));
	}

* * *

	#/usr/bin/perl -w
	use strict;
	my ($len,$total)=(0,0);
	my @x;
	while(<>){
		if(/^[\>\@]/){
			if($len>0){
				$total+=$len;
				push @x,$len;
			}
			$len=0;
		}
		else{
			s/\s//g;
			$len+=length($_);
		}
	}
	if ($len>0){
		$total+=$len;
		push @x,$len;
	}
	@x=sort{$b<=>$a} @x; 
	my ($count,$half)=(0,0);
	for (my $j=0;$j<@x;$j++){
		$count+=$x[$j];
		if (($count>=$total/2)&&($half==0)){
			print "N50: $x[$j]\n";
			$half=$x[$j]
		}elsif ($count>=$total*0.9){
			print "N90: $x[$j]\n";
			exit;
		}
	}

or run this command as before:<br>
Code:

	perl -e 'my ($len,$total)=(0,0);my @x;while(<>){if(/^[\>\@]/){if($len>0){$total+=$len;push@x,$len;};$len=0;}else{s/\s//g;$len+=length($_);}}if ($len>0){$total+=$len;push @x,$len;}@x=sort{$b<=>$a}@x; my ($count,$half)=(0,0);for (my $j=0;$j<@x;$j++){$count+=$x[$j];if(($count>=$total/2)&&($half==0)){print "N50: $x[$j]\n";$half=$x[$j]}elsif($count>=$total*0.9){print "N90: $x[$j]\n";exit;}}' contigs.fa

论坛附件：<a href="/assets/wp-uploads/2012/calengc.pl">calengc.pl</a>
